			Master Gregory Blount

		 invites you to a Ball this afternoon
	  to be conducted according to the prescriptions of
			Messer Fabritio Caroso

	       Maestro del ballo: Judith de Northumbria

%page

		     WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO HERE

This session is an attempt to recreate the sort of ball implied by the
descriptions in the etiquette sections of Caroso's {\em Nobilta' di
Dame}, which is a dance manual published in Italy in 1600.  We've made
a few adaptations, but the object is to provide as real an experience
as possible of attending an aristocratic dance party in the late 16th
century.

It seems they did not expect to have everyone up on the floor dancing at
once.  A few dance types (pavanes, allemands, bransles, and some forms of
English Country) were for everyone who wanted to join in.  All the others
were for one couple or one set at a time, and people took turns choosing
dances.  Most people spent most of the ball sitting around the edge of the
dance floor (ladies on one side, gentlemen on the other), forming a
knowlegable (and sometimes critical) audience.

			     HOW IT WORKS

Notice the arrangement of chairs around the dance floor.  By sitting
in the chairs at the edge of the dance floor, you declare your
interest in being asked to dance.  Period practice would have been
gender -- segregated seating, but you don't have to do that if you
don't want to.  If you want to watch only, please sit in the outer
chairs.  Feel free to move yourselves, and chairs if necessary,
between locations.

If you're interested in dancing, please study the playlist on the facing
page - this is what our musicians are prepared to play.  Have a couple of
choices in mind for when it's your turn to choose.  You can choose something
that's been done already if you want to.

When it is your turn, first tell the maestra del ballo what piece you
want.  I will tell the musicians, while you go and invite one or more
people to dance with you, according to whether the dance is for a
couple or a set.  The first person you invite is your partner, and the
one who will get the next turn.  (That's how they did it, so yes,
ladies in period did ask gentlemen to dance.)  I will then announce
the dance.  If you choose one of the 'as many as will' dances, you
need only invite your own partner, as I will ask the company at large
to join in.

Once someone has danced, he or she ought not to be asked again until
everyone of that gender has danced.

You're probably accustomed to thinking of watching dancing as "sitting out".
This format asks you to make a mental shift - try to think of dancing as you
would storytelling.  Being one of the listeners instead of the storyteller
isn't "sitting out", it's a different kind of enjoyment, and the activity
doesn't exist without both roles.  Give it a try, it can be interesting.

%page

			 DANCES FOR THE BALL

15c Italian: Amoroso, Anello, Gelosia, Petit Vriens, Rostiboli, maybe
Lauro, any other from J&J.

16c Pan-European: Galliard, either one couple or Lyonnaise; Pavane,
improvised or Belle Qui, for 1-3 couples.

16c Italian: Bizzaria d'amore, Carman's Whistle Canary (for 2) or
Negri's Il Canario, Contentezza d'amore, Ballo del Fiori, Furioso
all'Italiana, Leggiadria d'Amore, Lo Spagnoletto, perhaps others.

16c French (for up to 6 people): Candlestick Bransle, Cassandra,
Charlotte, Horses, Montarde, Official, Pease, Pinagay, Washerwomans,
any other from Arbeau.

English Measures (for 1-3 couples): Black Almain, Madam Sosilia Almain.

Country Dances: Black Nag, Heartsease, Hide Park, Jenny Pluck Pears,
Parson's Farewell, Rufty Tufty, any other set dance from Playford.

%page

Cheats -- Not responsible for misteaks

Amoroso: 12 pive; Men A=s s p s s s, W A to catch up; Men B=p p p s,
Women B to catch up; Men A Rev returns with B Rev, Women repeat.

Anello: 8 salt to square; hop hop men change 2 salt, women repeat; hop
hop turn around, women repeat; change with piva; 4 hop closer reverance

Ballo del Fiori: 4 doubles, continenza l/r, long reverenza. Boy meets
girl, dance together, J to move apart, flanking return, girl dumps boy.

Black Almain: 4 D. D back/for. D up/down. M set&t. W s&t. Turn,
slip up, turn, slip down, double back/for. Repeat with W going first.

Black Nag: lead, gallop, side, changes, arm, heys

Candlestick Bransle: 8 almain doubles, 4 almain singles. See Ballo del
Fiori.

Bransle Cassandra: Dl,Dr Dl,Dr Dl,Dr,Sl,Dr repeat.

Bransle Charlotte: Dl 2kick Dr, repeat. Dl 2kick Sr 3kick Sl 3kick
Dr. repeat.

Galliards: one two three four & fiue

Gelosia: 8 salt. 1st man to bottom with 3 contrapassi, rev, salt, repeat.
All 8 pive. Couples turn halfway one by one. Turn, turn back.

Heartsease: Lead. Back from partner, turn corner, back from corner,
turn partner. Side with partner then corner, chorus, arm, chorus.

Horses Bransle: 4 bransle up/down. stamp, step turn.

Hyde Park: 1&3 D f/b, 2&4 same. 1&3 slip in, switch partners, go
out, 2&4 likewise. Doubles. 2&4 make arches while 1&3 pass right
shoulders to go outside, through arches to place. Men weave, women
weave.

Jenny Pluck Pears: Slip with turns. W into center, Men shop. Out.
Side with turns. M into center, women shop. Arm with turns. W into\ldots

Madam Sosilia Almain: s s d forward, s back. repeat. face, set, reverence;
s s d to change places; step forward, embrace (woo woo); repeat.

Montarde Bransle: 4 doubles l, kicks, weave, kicks.

Official Bransle: double l r etc. 8 doubles left with toss. Repeat
as the music indicates.

Parson's Farewell: ha ha. you'll never get it right.

Pavanes: improvise one.

Pease Bransle: D l/r D l/r. M hop W hop, M 3 hops, repeat W first.

Petit Vriens: 16 Pive. Solos: 4 Pive; 1 double. Reverences. D back/forward,
set and turn.

Pinagay: D left kick Dl k,k,k Dl Dr Dl Dr

Rufty Tufty: lead; set and turn twice, lead partner out then corner; side;
chorus; arm; chorus.

Washerwoman's Bransle: D left,r repeat. S l,r,l,r with men shaking
first. D l clapping, D r, D l clapping, all kick to turn.
