Day	Time	Location	SCA Name 	Title of Class 	Description
11-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Domenico Barbiere Da Mantova	Dance floor assembly	"Please help us put assemble our beautiful parquet dance floor! If you have a portable drill (preferably charged up in advance), please bring it. No skills necessary."
11-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"Come join us for social dancing! Some dances will be taught, some will have a quick talk-through, and some won't be taught. So don't be shy, and ask someone new to dance tonight!"
12-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	New Reconstructions of Arbeau's Branles (16th Century French)	"Have you ever done Horse’s, Maltese, or Branle Official? Here’s a chance to look at Arbeau’s actual instructions. Learn how to reconstruct from Arbeau in the process. For Beginners and up."
12-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Adele Desfontaines	Cure Cascarde (16th Century Italian)	"They're cute, quick, and Caroso (16c Italian)! Dancers casually commencing their careers in cavorting can show off courtly carriage in these capers -- La Castellana and Chiara Stella!"
12-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Allasan inghean Fhaolain	Intermediate English Country Dancing	"Already know how to set and turn?  This class will cover Upon a Summer's Day, Grimstock, Picking of Sticks, and others depending on time.  Come dance with us!"
12-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Domenico's 15th Century Italian Dances	"Learn dances as recorded in Domenico's manuscript. We will be doing Belfiore, Lioncello, and others, including his version of Rostiboli Gioioso. Familiarity with 15th century Italian steps is necessary."
12-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Quick & Easy Dances	"This class is all about dances that are good for waking dancers up and getting them onto the floor. The dances taught will be Petite Riense, branle de Bourgoigne, branle de la Montarde, Rufty Tufty, and New Boe Peep. For Beginners."
12-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Intro to Gresley dances (15th century English)	"They're easy, they're English, and they're dated to around 1490! Learn some dances from the notebook of John Baynes (Gresley MS)"
12-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Dancing for absolute beginners	Did you know that in period both men and women asked people to dance? Learn that and other neat things in this class! 
12-Aug	6:30 PM	Dance Tent	Sion Andreas	If You've Learned One Dance You've Learned Them All	"Can Uncle Sion teach you 17--yes, I did say 17--dances in 2 hours?! He can if he cheats and they're really all the same dance!  Come and see how inventive people got and get with a simple pattern like 2 steps left/1 step right!"
12-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"See ""Evening Dance"" Wed 11-Aug 9pm"
13-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Ten things 15th century Italian dancers knew 	"Learn the Six Principle Elements of dance and the Four Mesure. Glide gracefully, like a gondola. Fit steps into the ""wrong"" tempi. Familiarity with 15th century Italian steps and a few dances is necessary. For intermediate dancers."
13-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Adele	Cute Cascarde II (16th Century Italian)	"Continue the frolic with two more cascarde -- Gracca Amorosa and Lacchio d'Amore!  The double C's inside each name stand for ""Cute Cascarda,"" you know!"
13-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Feats of Feets: Les Branles	"We'll be working on some of the more tricky and interesting branles from Arbeau, such as Aridan and Triory."
13-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	"Low, Slow, and Flirtatious: Cupido (15th century Italian)"	"How can one go wrong with a dance entitled “Cupid”? A short, sweet piece that will afford you all of the partner contact that you can handle. Ornamentation and styling briefly discussed. For complete beginners and experienced dancers."
13-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Feats of the Feets: La Gaillarde	"This one of the most flamboyant period dances. We'll be brushing up on basic technique for the French gaillarde, and then learning some variations. This is your chance to cut a caper."
13-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Focused Beginner 16th century Italian	Come learn the basics of Italian 16th Century dances.
13-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Dancing for absolute beginners	"If you can count to four (Step-Step-Step-Close), you can learn just about any dance done in the SCA. Come learn the foundations of dance!"
13-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"See ""Evening Dance"" Wed 11-Aug 9pm"
14-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Domenico Barbiere Da Mantova	Children's Dance	"Simple and fun dance for children. Persons 16 or over may only attend if accompanied by a child. No fees, be ready to have fun"
14-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Bouffons: a French 16th century sword dance	"Sharpen up your work with Bouffons. Learn the Opening Passage, and work with adding the kicks into the choreography. To be followed with a brief discussion on fencing movement in period. See also Beginner’s Bouffons "
14-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Footloose and Fancy Free	"Not all documented period dances consisted of routines done by the book. Let's explore of the improvisational side of period dancing. The matter of this class will, of necessity, be a bit more conjectural than is usual for period dancing, but will not stray very far from the sources. The dances will include the courante, piva, and some basic branles. For Beginners"
14-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Naughty Courtly Dances	I still haven't found documentation on how to do period lap dancing. So instead we'll be learning some more innocuously naughty dances that include hugging and kissing. For Beginning dancers.
14-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	"Low, Slow, and Flirtatious: Giosio Spagnguolo (15th Century Italian)"	"Some like it hot -- and some like it Spanish hot. The dance name means “Joy in the Spanish style”. All steps taught, ornamentation and styling briefly discussed.  For complete beginners as well as experienced dancers."
14-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Introduction to 15th Century Italian Dance	Come learn the basics of Italian 15th Century dances.
14-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Pennsic Ball Prep Class	Learn the dances that will be done at the Pennsic Ball. Specific dances taught will depend on the student's requests.
14-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	A Festa in the Court of the Comte	"Sir Gerhardt, Count of the Realm, invites one and all to an evening of merriment in the style of the courts of Firenze, Milano and Mantova.   Come dance, eat, drink, game and delight to your heart’s content!  The Maestra di Balli, the most honourable Lady Judith de Northumbria, will do her utmost to fulfill the terpsichorean desires of his Excellency’s guests --- provided that they be requests appropriate to the great Italian courts of this, the fifteenth century of our Lord."
14-Aug	9:00 PM	Barn	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"See ""Evening Dance"" Wed 11-Aug 9pm"
15-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Ellen of York	Intro to 17th Century English Country Dance	"An introduction to English Country Dance. Dances to be taught may include Rufty Tufty, Jenny Pluck Pear and Sellinger's Round."
15-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Lowrie Leulyn	More 15th Century Italian Dance: Merchesana	"Marchesana is a lively 15th Century Italian dance, by Domenico. I will go over the necessary basic steps needed to do the dance."
15-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	One Minute of Madness: Parson's Farewell	"Parson's Farewell is a very short dance, about one minute long at a typical tempo, but it packs a lot of interesting figures into a little time. It's well worth learning, even if it does take a whole hour to learn. For Intermediate dancers."
15-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Advanced Bouffons: Improve your French sword dancing	"Sharpen up your work with Bouffons. Learn the Opening Passage, and work with adding the kicks into the choreography. To be followed with a brief discussion on fencing movement in period. Some experience with Bouffons necessary."
15-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	"Low, Slow, and Flirtatious: Lauro (a Pennsic Ball dance)"	"The title says it all. This dance was composed by Lorenzo de Medici, il Magnifico. For complete beginners as well as experienced dancers; all steps will be taught, and ornamentation and styling briefly discussed."
15-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Introduction to the  Inns of Court dances (16th Century English)	Come learn the basics of dances from the Inns of Court manuscripts (English 16th Century).
15-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Pennsic Ball Prep Class	Learn the dances that will be done at the Pennsic Ball. Specific dances taught will depend on the student's requests.
15-Aug	4:00 PM	A&S Tent	Gregory Blount	"The Santucci manuscript, an new dance source"	"Mastro del Ballo"" is the most important dance source discovered in the last century. Come participate in a roundtable discussion of this new source."
15-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	English Revels	Duchessa Diana Alene Tregirtse invites one and all to an evening of English dancing lead by Lord Henry of Maldon
15-Aug	9:00 PM	Barn	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"See ""Evening Dance"" Wed 11-Aug 9pm"
16-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Katherine Mercer	Dance your gender!	"Explore what the 16th century sources say about differences in dance performance, etiquette, and style for men and women.  Some knowledge of 16th century dancing (especially galliards) helpful, but not mandatory."
16-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Lombardy Longways (15th Century Italian)	"Yes, the Italians had longways dances, too, with hays and all of the fun that an English dance has, and more!  Some dance experience recommended, but all steps will be taught.  Dances to be taught: Colonesse, Pizochara."
16-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Playing with your partner	You have the basics down; now learn ways to spice it up and how different music can affect your movement. Exemplar dances will be Rosti Boli Gioioso and Amoroso.  Students should be familiar with these two.  Intermediate difficulty.
16-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lowrie Leulyn	Dance the Carary (16th Century Italian)	"This class will teach the Canary, a 16th Century Italian dance style. Appropriate for folks who have never done the Canary, but know 16th Century Italian dancing. The basic structure of a Canary and variations will be taught."
16-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Quick & Easy Dances	"This class is all about dances that are good for waking dancers up and getting them onto the floor. The dances taught will be Petite Riense, branle de Bourgoigne, branle de la Montarde, Rufty Tufty, and New Boe Peep. For Beginners."
16-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Introduction to French 16th Century	Come learn the basics of French 16th Century dances.
16-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Pennsic Ball Prep Class	Learn the dances that will be done at the Pennsic Ball. Specific dances taught will depend on the student's requests.
16-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Domenico Barbiere Da Mantova	Ballo Della San Lorenzo	"Signore Domenico Barbiere Da Mantova requests the honor of your presence for a ball to honor San Lorenzo, whose feast day is 10 Aug. While there will be many 15th Century Italian dances to lighten your
step, a generous quantity of English Country and French dances will be included. All are welcome from the experienced to the novice dancer."
16-Aug	9:00 PM	Barn	Pennsic Dance Staff	Evening Dance	"See ""Evening Dance"" Wed 11-Aug 9pm"
17-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Etienne	Surely You Joust? - The Tournament of Love (16th century Italian)	"So you may ask, what does jousting have to do with dancing? To answer this question, we look at Fabritio Caroso's ""Il Ballarino"" (1581). There are four dances where Caroso mentions doing steps in a jousting manner.  This class will explore one of those dances, Torneo Amoroso."
17-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Techniques for Dance	"This class discusses the importance of facsimiles, transcriptions, translations, tabulations, and concordances in the reconstruction of dance. A firm understanding of most Renaissance dance styles will allow you to benefit from the full potential of this class, but all are welcome."
17-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Fancy Dances Made Simple	"Two of the more interesting and attractive dances done in the SCA are Picking of Sticks and Rostiboli Gioioso. This class will be a relatively simple and practical introduction to these two dances, with an emphasis on learning to get through them in time with the music."
17-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 15th Century Italian (Ebreo)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
17-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 15th Century Burgundian (Toulouze)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
17-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Salatatoris Dance Guild	Beginning English Country Dance	"Learn the basic elements of English country dances, according to Playford, then name the dances you'd like to learn, practice, or just dance for fun."
17-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Pennsic Ball Prep Class	Learn the dances that will be done at the Pennsic Ball. Specific dances taught will depend on the student's requests.
17-Aug	9:00 PM	Barn	Lyev Davidovitch	Pennsic Ball	The Honorable Don Lyev Davidovich and THL Judith of Northumbria invite one and all to the Pennsic Ball.
18-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 16th Century English (Inns of Court)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
18-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Salatatoris Dance Guild	Intermediate English Country Dancing	"The dances taught are up to the participants. Possibilities include, but are in no way limited to, Hyde Park, If All the World Were Paper, Whirlygig, Parsons Farewell, Bonny Bonny Broom, and Fine Companion."
18-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 16th Century French (Arbeau)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
18-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Alina of Foxwood	Diamond Duo -- Bizzaria d'Amore and il Villanicco	"Engage your fellow dancers in sparkling wit, whimsical flirtation and, perhaps, sharp duels in this pair of 16th Centure Italian dances for 2 couples danced in a diamond formation. "
18-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Katherine Mercer	Intro to 16th Century Italian	"Contrapasso en Due, Il Piantone, two dance games from La Caccia d'Amore will be taught. "
18-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	Dance for Absolute Beginners	Never set foot on a dance floor before? Come learn the basics!
18-Aug	9:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Ballo in Onore della Duchessa	"Duchess Elena of Trimaris invites the noble lords and ladies of the Known World to a dance ball in the Italian style of Caroso and Negri. After the formal ball, space will be available for post-revel dancing from all countries and previous eras. The Maestro di Ballo is The Honorable Don Lyev Davidovich"
18-Aug	10:00 PM	Barn	TBD	Open Dancing	The Barn will be available for open dancing after courts are done.
19-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Sion Andreas	If You've Learned One Dance You've Learned Them All	"Can Uncle Sion teach you 17--yes, I did say 17--dances in 2 hours?! He can if he cheats and they're really all the same dance!  Come and see how inventive people got and get with a simple pattern like 2 steps left/1 step right!"
19-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 16th Century Italian (Caroso)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
19-Aug	1:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Renaissance Folk Dance: Saltarello and Piva	"This class will cover the culture and practice of two of the most popular improvised dance forms of not only Italy, but of Spain and France. Part lecture, part practicum.  No choreographies to remember, just pure, simple fun. For absolute beginners and up."
19-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Reconstruction Practicum: 17th Century English Country Dance (Playford)	I will provide you with different exerts of choreography and your challenge will be to reconstruct that excep in smaller groups. We will then compare the groups finished products at the end of the class
19-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Introduction to 15th Century Italian Dance	Come learn the basics of Italian 15th Century dances.
19-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Ball Prep class for Blue Feather Ball	Come learn the dances that will be done at the Blue Feather Ball.
19-Aug	8:00 PM	Dance Tent	Philip White	Blue Feather Ball & Fashion Cotillion	"THL Philip White invites all to the Blue Feather Ball. Dancing will take place from 8-10pm, to be followed by other activities including the annual fashion show."
19-Aug	10:00 PM	Barn	TBD	Open Dancing	The Barn will be available for open dancing after courts are done.
20-Aug	10:00 AM	Dance Tent	Katherine Mercer	Be a better dancer the period way!	"In this class well try some easy 15th century exercises to improve our skill as dancers.  Some knowledge of basic fifteenth century dance steps (singles, doubles, pive, and reprisa) assumed but all choreography will be taught."
20-Aug	11:00 AM	Dance Tent	Henry of Maldon	"Country Dances, Round for Eight"	"Something old, something new, something borrowed, but no blues (sorry). We'll be doing two Playford dances (If All the World Were Paper, and Newcastle), and one newly choreographed dance, to a new tune, called Love's Light Wings. For Intermediate dancers."
20-Aug	12:00 PM	Dance Tent	Gregory Blount	New 16th Century Dances	"Come learn some ""new"" 16th Century Italian dances... even though GeoffyMatt won't come to Pennsic again this year, his reconstructions will. For Intermediate dancers."
20-Aug	2:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Renaissance Folk Dance: Chirintana	"This class will cover a widely (and enduringly) popular dance that seems itself to exhibit several of the elements of later longways English Country Dances, namely the high-energy hays in such dances as La Trenchmore. For absolute beginners and up."
20-Aug	3:00 PM	Dance Tent	Judith of Northumbria	Period Partner Swapping	"Swinging is Period! This class will survey a variety of dances that seem to promote socialization (or infidelity, depending on one’s point of view).  Dances to be covered: The 4th part of Caccia D’Amore, the Hay Bransle, the Slip (Il Piantone), Ballo del Fiore. For absolute beginners and up."
20-Aug	4:00 PM	Dance Tent	Lyev Davidovitch	Dancing for Absolute Beginners	"Curious about all the fun that people have at evening dance? This is your chance to find out! As a bonus, learn tips on asking someone to dance, and declining an invitation gracefully."
20-Aug	5:00 PM	Dance Tent	Domenico Barbiere Da Mantova	Dance Floor Disassembly	"Please help us put away our dance floor for next year! If you have a portable drill (preferably charged up in advance), please bring it. No skills necessary."
20-Aug	11:00 PM	Barn	TBD	Open Dancing	The Barn will be available for open dancing after courts are done.
21-Aug	9:00 PM	Barn	TBD	Open Dancing	The Barn will be available for open dancing for any hearty soles still remaining!
